What if the field of astrophysics has it wrong?
In this age of discovery, there's new evidence
that our sun is not a gigantic lone star,
with planets rotating around it, rather it's rotating
around its own partner, taking all of us with it.
This partnership is called a binary star system.
And more than half of the sun stars in our galaxy
do have companions.
What does this mean to the big picture?
A lot, according to Walter Cruttenden,
it means that our planet, and the human species,
goes through cycles of evolution and decline,
wakefulness and discovery, to sleep and forgetfulness.
(soft brass music)
Assume that everybody watching this has already
watched Part 1, and has some good background.
And at the end of Part 1, we talked about Sirius.
You had actually named names, and now,
this is several months down the road,
and you're much more bold in talking about
the notion that Sirius is the companion
star to the sun.
Can we start this interview talking a little bit
about some of the common themes that have
run through ancient text structures and so forth,
regarding the importance of Sirius?
Well, Sirius is the brightest start in the sky.
And it's been a special star to
virtually every ancient culture.
I think right here, where we are,
in Hopi land, they called it the Blue Kochina.
And the ancient Egyptians referred to is as Isis,
which is their number one god.
So it's sort of a magical star from
a myth and folklore standpoint,
but you know, we've been investigating it
from a scientific standpoint.
And it has some amazing traits there, also.
For example, it is
the heaviest star in our local neighborhood.
The Sirius system, it actually has another little star
that goes around it, itself, called Sirius B.
And together they,
it's about three solar masses,
so on one of the big Einstein grids,
it would be the heavy point,
which lends some credence to
our idea that our system may go around that.
Although we still have the classical Newtonian problems.
Both from a myth and folklore standpoint, and
from a scientific standpoint, it's seems to have some
characteristics that make it look
like a companion.
I mean, heck, if the brightest star in the sky is our sun,
the second brightest star would have a good chance
of being our companion.
And there is a lot of lore, ancient lore,
that talks about this,
often called the Dog star, in many cultures.
Many ancient cultures appear to have called it
the Dog star, meaning, as in following
the main star, following the star, as perhaps
what that reference might mean.
Can you talk a little bit about that, so we can
just see where the seeds around the planet were
of this understanding?
Yes, I don't remember all the different references,
I put in the book, but it's been called the Dog,
the Hound, the Fox, the Wolf, which is
you know, it's all a dog-like character that
seems to run across the sky.
And indeed, if it was the companion star,
it would move relative to other stars.
And that is a really interesting point.
This, to me, is so fascinating, because certainly
we're beginning to understand how
wise the Egyptians were in their understanding
of cosmology, and one of the primary
edifices, the Queen's chamber has that shaft,
and the shaft points directly to Sirius, and
I heard you in a talk, just yesterday, saying,
"Why would the Egyptians create
"this incredible structure, locking onto Sirius
"for us, right now, because we're viewing it
"right now," and the answer was.
It could be that it always points to Sirius.
And this goes against
conventional thinking about Precession.
Precession theory is now
that all stars move across the sky in a roughly
the same rate, 50 arc seconds,
due to a wobbling earth.
But if we are, indeed in a companion star system,
a binary system, there would be one star
that would stay relatively the same, in comparison
to earth coordinates, and yet move across the sky.
If they're gravitationally bound like that.
Yes, and there's some, you know,
it's just some interesting comments about Sirius
over the years, that it's just not moving very much.
The ancient Egyptians, you know, used it to keep time.
And so it looks like
this tiny little shaft
which really only points to about
one or two degrees of sky during the whole
Precession cycle, so that's you know, 70, 100,
120 years, something like that.
Why would they point it to that star, during our lifetime.
For us, now.
Yeah, it's their number one god.
Now, that doesn't make sense, because
they did know what they were doing.
But what you say makes total sense,
just like holding hands with someone
and spinning around, you're gravitationally
directly opposed to each other.
Yes, it's like we're on opposite sides of
a merry-go-round, so we,
the two horses on the merry-go-round,
always stay the same in relationship to each other,
whereas everything in the background goes by.
Which is why they would notice that the sun,
that the ancients would have noticed that
the background of stars moved in contrast to Sirius.
Exactly.
Well, this is actually making a whole lot of sense.
But you say the Newtonian problem,
can you talk about what the Newtonian problem is
in all of this?
Well, yes, according to classical Newtonian mechanics,
and the speed that we believe our solar system
is moving, in order to get around Sirius,
and back, it would take over a million years.
And this is why we so thoroughly explored
the Dark Star scenario, in Lost Star of Myth and Time,
the Brown dwarf or Black hole idea that
you know, if we are in this binary system,
that it should be fairly close, it should be actually
only be a tenth of a light-year away
in order to get around it in 24,000 years.
So you know, I don't bring this up
with astronomers, astrophysicists, very often.
But there's a building body of evidence that indicates
not only are we gravitationally bound to this star,
but that the whole solar system might be going
a lot faster than we thought it was.
Does this have to do with some of the
calculations that Reg Cahill is doing?
Yes.
This is interesting, can you just give us
a primer course on what the speed of the earth
has always been thought to be,
and what it appears the speed of the sun
may actually be in this whole equation,
and why this actually would work?
Right, measuring celestial speed
is a real tricky business.
We can do it locally, because you know,
we're on the surface of the earth,
the earth is roughly 24,000 miles in diameter,
and it takes 24 hours to spin around once,
so we're going 1,000 miles an hour.
Or we know that the, how long the earth takes
to get around the sun, and the rough size of that orbit,
so we know that the earth moves
about 66,000 miles an hour around the sun.
So people have been trying to figure out,
"Well, how fast is the sun going?"
The solar system, and there's nothing
to measure it by.
You know, there's no
speed markers or anything like that.
And this is relevant to the notion of how it could
go in precession with a companion star,
that far away, right?
Yes.
And so I think it's been assumed,
most textbooks that I've read says
the earth is going about eight kilometers a second.
But there's a fella out of Australia, Reg Cahill,
with Flinders University down there, who is,
has come up with a novel way of measuring
the speed of the solar system, and he's measured it
relative to the cosmic microwave background.
The sort of, static radiation that is supposedly
leftover from the Big Bang.
And he says that it's going
430 kilometers a second,
which is, you know, considerably faster.
And that happens to be just almost
exactly the speed you need to get around a star
like Sirius and back, which is about eight light-years,
but it's heavier than us, and so the mid-point
is you know, somewhere in between us,
about two-thirds of the way, so we don't have to go
draw a circle completely at eight light-years and out.
We draw it at about six light-years and around.
So it's looking that mathematically,
this is plausible now.
It is, it is plausible, yes.
You know, in science, one or two guys
saying something doesn't mean a whole lot.
You have to get a lot of people to
buy off on this work, and, but it's a start.
You know, the fact that he came up
with the same numbers that we had calculated
as the speed you need is very, very interesting.
Yes, it is, considering we can't take ancient knowledge
into consideration, because people think of ancients
as primitive beings, and this is an area that
we need to go into a little bit further, too.
Because I find this the fascinating part, is.
Well, let me just say this first,
my understanding is, you have a team of people
who are now actually focusing on looking
for the companion, a companion to the sun.
Is that correct?
Yes, there's a few of us at the Binary Research Institute
and we do a lot of research,
both on the binary scenario as well as
ancient myth and folklore, trying to mine that,
to figure out what they might have known about
the companion star scenario.
And then we've used people on a part-time basis,
consulting basis, mathematicians, astrophysicists,
and then there's people that are just working on it
independently, for example, Richard Muller,
he's astronomer at UC Berkeley, he's been looking
for a possible companion, so have Whitmire
and Matese down at the University of Louisiana.
Now, they're focused more on the classic,
Newtonian scenario, but I think it's good
that we, sort of exhaust those possibilities, before
we start playing with the laws of gravity too much.
Yeah, that seems to be necessary to exhaust it
before true, original thinking can be accepted.
Yes.
It seems to be the way.
So, when you're looking at it,
now all of you are looking for this,
some of the math is starting to bear out,
you're more bold, and so are some others,
in talking about the fact, maybe the ancients
did know something, and this gets to
a really important point, which is
the ancients did know something,
there's too much evidence now as to
very advanced civilizations, even as far back as
10, 12,000 years ago, to ignore the fact that
we're not necessarily at the top of
our learning curve yet.
In this phase, and this ties in, this consciousness
ties in to the Precession,
and the whole notion of Dark Ages,
and Golden Ages happening, cyclically.
Can you talk about this, a little bit?
We mention it before, but maybe.
Yes, just a quick little recap, then.
Ancient cultures all over the world
believed in this vast cycle of time, with a
Golden Age at one end, and a Dark Age at the other.
One Precession of the Equinox, one eon,
one Great Year, that played over,
the Chinese called it.
And there's so many references
from so many disparate cultures, that
you have to start to take it seriously.
And indeed, when we do look at the
archaelogical record, we find a tremendous amount
of evidence of very advanced civilizations
in the past, Mesopotamia,
you know, Sumer declines to Akkad,
declines to Babylon, declines to dust.
Egypt, same thing, it's near its heighth,
and goes to dust, and virtually every other culture
around the world, and, including you know,
Rome and the Chinese Hunan Dynasty
are falling about the same time as the
Mayans are crumbling, over here in the Americas.
And then we have this dreadful Dark Age.
I mean, it was getting bad on the way in,
and then we're sort of coming out of it now.
You know, with the Renaissance, rebirth and
a cycle up, so they all seemed
to tie it to this Precession of the Equinox.
They keep saying something about the movement
of the stars has something to do with it,
and one star in particular.
And so, that's what really pushed
myself and our group to dig into this,
to find out what astronomical phenomena
actually is driving this rise and fall of the ages.
And how does that work?
And it actually impacts our consciousness,
and our ability to expand versus contract.
Build versus decline, and so where we would
theoretically be in all of this, or where we would be
in all of this, is just past the nadir, and starting
to come back up into awakening again,
as a species, right?
Yes, the Mithraic culture had this icon, with
the Zodiac in the middle, and these,
these two boys, Cautes and Cautopates,
holding a torch down when you're in the down cycle,
and holding the torch up when you're in
the ascending cycle, so I guess they're just
starting to lift the torch up.
(laughs) Just in the knick of time before
we blow the whole thing up.
Some would say, again.
I would like to read this little portion
of your book, just a quick little passage
because it seems like this might have
something to do with the cosmic influence
that affects our consciousness as a species.
Which is important to know, if we're on the uprise again.
It says here, "In the Old Testament, we read
"Canst thou bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades
"or loose the bounds of Orion."
What does this mean, to "bind these influences"?
Well, in trying--
Of the Pleiades, specifically.
Regina, In trying to figure out
how this system might work,
we don't think that it's just going around another star,
is the absolute influence on the rise and fall
of civilization, we know that the spinning earth
and the earth going around the sun affects our
weather, and life, and consciousness to a mild degree.
But, it's hard to see how it would affect
the type of changes that we're talking about.
Where you go to sleep, and then wake up,
go to sleep, wake up, destroy yourselves, rebuild.
The sun does that, so.
So what some of the ancients have said,
and probably the fella that said it the clearest,
is newer, Swami Sri Yukteswar
wrote this book in 1894,
and said that there's another point,
and it's the binary orbit that brings us closer
to that other point.
And some have called that the Seed of Brahma,
some, the Grand Magnetic Center,
the Central Sun, there's all sort of little references
to it throughout history.
And some have said it's the Pleiades.
And so, that Bible quote is
one of my favorites, it's possible that
as we move in this binary system,
now and then, in this 24,000 year cycle,
we get close to the Pleiades,
it has this sweet influence upon us,
and then as the binary system moves us away,
we have a lesser, less of that sweet influence,
and we go into the darker ages.
It's a wonderful passage, and it says,
what you, in response to that, your writing here
it also conveys the idea that man cannot stop,
"Canst thou bind," the celestial motion or orbit
that takes us away from the sweet source.
Yes, that's Job's--
Must be on a declining age, in the spectrum of things.
Exactly, and he's sort of asking a metaphorical question.
"Canst thou stop it," you know.
And so it's, it's beautiful, the wisdom of the ancients
that we completely lost, just about, except
in very esoteric mystery schools, and things like that.
And now it's sort of just creeping back out again.
And you give an example also, of how we lost,
in modern times, how we lost the understanding
of having heliocentric solar system, and then
we remembered, can you talk about the timeline
of how that decline descended, was forgotten
and how it has come back?
Yes, there's so much knowledge that was lost,
but the heliocentric system is, it's just a great example,
because this was taught
by Aristarchus of Samos, in ancient Greece,
Archimedes talked about it,
and there's one other Greek,
whose name I can't recall off the top of my head,
and this is about 500,
400 B.C., in there,
and then, you know, we just totally
lose that information, Greece falls,
Rome comes, it's even more brutal.
Well, the little book burning didn't help.
(laughs) That's exactly right.
Losing Alexandria didn't help.
And then the idea is, we're just on a flat earth,
you know, and, but anyway, about the low point
of the Dark Ages, we put around 500 A.D. or so,
and so then 1,000 years after the low point,
along comes Copernicus, who resurrects it.
I just read a book on Copernicus,
"the book that nobody read,"
it's about de revolutionibus,
and he had five books in his possession.
Three of them were old Greek books.
And so Copernicus was resurrecting
ancient knowledge.
You know, today, if you write a scientific paper,
come out with a new theory, you will quote things
that came two years before, or three years before,
five or 10 years before, you don't go back 2,000 years.
Right.
For the basis of your theories.
So, up 'til now, anyway, right?
Right.
So, it was lost 1,000 years before the depths of
the Dark Ages, and found 1,000 years after.
And that really coincides with the real, the low point,
the nadir of the descension, and starting to move
back into the ascension of the awakening,
the knowledge, going back toward the Golden.
Yes, yeah, and we believe that low point
is when the two stars,
our sun and its companion star,
are at its farthest point apart, apoapsis,
and then the high point is when
they're at their closest distance.
Which is periapsis.
So we're on our way back up.
We're on our way back up, but in the interim,
there are a lot of, there's a lot of interesting
phenomenon going on, in terms of magnetic fields,
and zero point, and all these other phenomenon.
And I know that you have some associates
that really dig deeply into that work.
But can you, do you have any comment
you'd like to make about some of that phenomenon,
including just the Gauss frequencies alone,
and what's happening, we're out of whack.
We started, even 20 years ago, the earth
is not functioning the same as it was,
even 20 years ago.
Yes, well, you know, I get the question all the time,
"Okay, so we're in a binary system, you know,
"what's that mean to me, here and now?"
And I think it means a lot.
We hear so much nowadays about the expansion
of consciousness that's going on.
And if technology is a proxy, you know,
our sheer inventiveness shows you that
consciousness is expanding, and there's been
three or four books, just come out,
in the last few years that compare physical reality
to virtual reality, or matrix, or a dream
or a holograph, and there just seems to be
more and more people that are,
that are very conscious,
channeling, psychic, you know,
able to move this physical reality
with their intention and thought and will.
And, I see it related,
I see this as a part of the ascending age,
that, a matter of fact, Thureches, and Euctus were,
and others talked about this, that as we move
from the Dark Ages, where we only believe
everything is solid and we're just flesh and bones
and nothing more, we come into the
just the first age up, the dupare uga,
where we start to get an understanding
of finer forces, and sure enough,
we start to realize things are made
out of molecules, those are made out of atoms,
those are made out of protons,neutrons, electrons,
and it's looking like those are made out of energy.
And we're realizing more and more, I think
that we are energy.
And so, it's all connected, yes, there's a very
positive growth and consciousness right now.
And sure, we can affect that with our own free will
and you know, those people that do things
to tune in can go faster than the norm.
But it's almost like the Creator himself
just is lifting up the whole world right now,
to some degree.
And it is interesting, because if you go into
the metaphysical world, you have a lot of
references of people being able to connect with
the Pleiades, a lot of emphasis on Sirius.
These are some of the most common.
You have, one of our other interviewees,
in fact, in studying the phenomenon
of near-death experiences, has noted that
many of the people, once they leave their body
for that duration, often report going to Orion
and back, and so there seems to be
an awakening of an understanding
of a connection to something larger.
And it seems to be pointing back regularly
to these same places now.
It's really neat, what's going on,
in that we're changing from this
purely physical explanation of things.
You know, the Great Pyramid is
just a big bunch of stones
that happens to be in a pyramid shape, you know.
To bury somebody.
Right, to realize that, boy, it's something much,
much more, you know.
Yeah, sure more than a tomb, isn't it?
It sure is.
It seems from everything I've been reading,
it's about as alive as an edifice could possibly be.
And literally pointing us to the knowledge
we need to awaken to, and it sounds like
you're one of the trumpets
in this arena right now.
Well, I'm blowing it hard, because I,
I see this rise and fall of civilization
that's not explained with current theory.
And the only way I can explain the phenomenon
of precession, you know, it's so technical,
I can't get into it here, there's about six or eight
serious problems with the current theory
of lunisolar precession, and yet they are all
so easily explained when you realize
we're in a binary system.
It explains all the motions.
So, that means we have to unloose our own
bind to, that, what do you call them?
When you're chained to something?
Anyway, we have to--
Be bound.
We have to unloose that, unloose our own boundaries
of our thinking from the Newtonian science
into something brand new.
Yes, I think it's time.
We'll be staying in touch with Walter,
and we'll keep you updated as more breakthroughs
on the astrophysics and mathematic scenes
are made available.
Meanwhile, please take a look at our interview
with John Major Jenkins, to go deeper
into the Mayans, and their understanding
of the Precession of the Equinox.
Until next time, thanks for watching.